let's get the whole view here right I
got this shirt in Hawaii I just came
back from the geek cruise does anybody
hear about the geek cruise it's the
weirdest thing you know you get a bunch
of Mac heads on a boat with normal
people and you cruise around places so I
did the geek cruise to Alaska last year
and this year was Hawaii and it was
interesting because in order to save
money you know conferences are working
together so we had a combined conference
it was actually Mac mania which was the
you know Mac geek part of it pearl world
for pearl guys and Star Trek and you
know so you go into the main dining room
and you're sitting there they assign you
seats and the conversation was
unbelievably strange and this year I had
pearl going in like this while I was
getting Vulcan stuff going that way and
somewhere in the middle they met made
sense I don't know how it worked thank
you for spending time today and coming
in for the Apple scripting quicktime
session you're going to get an overview
of what's available for you to use right
now what kind of QuickTime tools are out
there and some ideas about how to use
them to automate some of the processes
that you do with quicktime content every
day just a quick question so i can get a
sense of whom i am talking to how many
of you in here are scripting already yes
see your work has been validated right
here and I assume that most of you are
also doing quicktime content as well
okay so there's some scriptures in here
i see by the disparity in difference
there that our scriptures that want to
start incorporating quicktime into their
lifestyles is this true nugget right
there there's one right there he just
got a cable modem he wants to live the
quicktime life I due to all the time I
think the story of Apple scripting
quicktime is a one of the real unsung
success stories in apple computer and
through the very diligent hard work of
Gary Flynn Tom Becker rona Frank and and
everybody involved in this it
been an ongoing process is just loomed
and bloomed in bloom and it basically
came down to the same idea that affects
every businesses how do I get
consistency how do I get accuracy how do
I get speed how can I scale what I do
and make more money and stay competitive
and the answer in any business whether
it's in multimedia or whether it's print
or whatever kind of business it is it's
automation is the answer so with that in
mind the QuickTime team in the
applescript team focused on delivering
core functionality that allows you to
automate a lot of the repetitive things
that you do with QuickTime content such
as you know applying annotations to 400
movies that you're going to go up on the
website done by hand that's very tedious
done with a script it's go get a donut
so the whole idea is to incorporate this
automation with the world of QuickTime
and so what I'm going to do first of all
can I have get laptop one please that
was all the slides you're going to get
out of me by the way I don't slide I
like to show you what it is instead of
talking about it it's like dancing about
architecture or something so what we're
going to look at first is what's
available to us what kind of resources
are there what kind of things it has
Apple done where is it on my operating
system what does it look like and then
we're going to go from there into three
core new features added in the reef most
recent version of quicktime just for
apple script just for apple script
you're very special there are three
extremely powerful features that can
only be done with apple script and
they're in the new version we're going
to look at those and i'm going to have a
guest come up and show some of the
automations based upon some of that
technology that we use in house and with
some customers and then at the end we're
going to look at Apple scripts to do
which is part of the Xcode package and
what that allows you to do is create a
native mac OS 10 application using Apple
script Objective C Java Sea or any
combination thereof but what we're going
to particularly pay attention to with
Apple scripts to do is the ability to
talk directly to the quick
api's from applescript so all the
commands that you wanted but you
couldn't get to you can now make
yourself and I'll show you an example
project that you can download today and
start using so let's begin my first
slide is going to take you to the
venerable quicktime website we all know
how to get there quicktime com it's the
shortcut that the people into no use you
can do the same for Apple script as well
as Apple script calm and I've down the
right-hand side you'll see a thing says
quicktime products over here and under
quicktime pro there's a nice page that
gives you all the reasons why you want
to get quicktime pro and trust me if you
don't have it you do want to buy it
because it's it turns on a lot of
functionality that you really want to
take advantage of and one of the links
there number 10 is apple script which
will take you to a page within the
applescript world that contains scripts
about the quicktime player if we want to
get to the same page via Apple script
you just type in dub dub dub apple.com /
applescript or applescript com click the
applications button navigation bar click
on the quicktime player and it takes you
to the same page now this collection
that we post is over a hundred in what's
about 150 script 160 last time we looked
right there were some other additions in
there these are every script it's posted
on here is fully editable you can open
it up steal the code change the code
bake the code squeeze the code whatever
you want to do with it we encourage you
to open up these scripts and look at
them they're not only usable tools as
they are but they're really jumping off
points for going farther with apple
script there's a collection of athlete
in applets apple script athletes which
are self running applications with an
icon that looks like this and apple
script droplets which look like this was
a nice little blue arrow on it and these
are the kind of scripts that you drag
files on or folders or files on all of
our app all of our droplets are designed
to handle
multi-layered folders of quicktime
content so if you have a folder of 50
movies with other folders of 50 movies
just drag the whole thing on there and
the script will parse it for you and
recurse through each level doing the
process that it's designed to do and
some of the applets and droplets that we
post include things like as simple as
adding to favorites making a quick way
to add something to a favorites being
able to set the annotations of a movie
every annotation that's available and
here's a list of all the possible
annotations that you can set and you can
have a script that's preset to your
specific set of annotations or you can
have a copy of the script for 10
different kinds of settings and just
take a movie dragon on it it will open
up the movie apply the settings for you
and close the movie back so it's just a
quick drag that saves you about 10
minutes of work by yourself there's a
applets and droplets for clearing the
annotations converting droplets for
converting to QuickTime streams click on
format you can create slideshows from
folders of images display a particular
folder as a slideshow just to get a
quick idea of what it's going to look
like if you just want to do a quick set
of annotations you could use the limited
annotations droplet and go to the
comment field in the finder on the
droplet and set a couple properties and
i'll be demonstrating that one for you
as well there's also applications and
droplets for automating the playback of
movies and presenting movies full screen
those are very useful if you have a
dozen movies and you want to just play
them and sit back and watch you drag the
folder or just drag the files onto the
script and it will open them up one by
one and present them in the manner that
you indicate whether it is full screen
double size or normal size whichever way
that you want there's also a version
that you can place the playback script
in the folder with the movies run the
script and it looks around itself find
some movies and presents those as well
there's a script for sampling an audio
CD and you'll see that today there's
scripts for saving things as uneditable
so once you've got that file the way
that you want and you don't want anybody
else going in you can just quickly drag
it on to that and post it up where you
want
it becomes a nun editable file saving is
hinted saving a twit time for Mac you
could actually control the QuickTime
playback on machines remotely using
program linking in this script you can
set controller types setting the a href
property of a movies always been
something that people like to do but
it's been difficult to do and with this
droplet you just assign me the URL of
the movie that you want and drag it on
we'll look at that then there are the
playback properties droplets and these
control the hidden features like auto
clothes so that a movie when it's done
playing closes up after itself or Auto
quit so that when the movie's done it
quits the QuickTime Player or it will
automatically go into presentation mode
full screen for you you might not know
that these features are there but you
can set them with applescript that's
just a droplet and it really makes a
difference in the way that your
customers and your consumers of your
content get to view the content and
we'll look at those as well then those
are our self standing self running
scripts the other hundred scripts that
we have in this collection our script
manuscripts and they're designed to be
run from Apple system level script menu
now this script menu is installed in
every copy of Jaguar you've just done
extra jagwire did I actually do that
it's infectious isn't it it really is
this script menu is installed in the
Apple script folder which is in the
Applications folder you just
double-click the thing that's a script
menu and it installs up into the menu
bar for you and you can't see the
glorious looking icon that we have but
it by default it has dozens and dozens
about 30 or 40 scripts pre-installed for
you and when you download the script
collection you can get the QuickTime
broadcaster scripts and the QuickTime
Player scripts and this hundred scripts
right here are these scripts in this
particular collection it's really easy
to install you simply go to open the
scripts folder which is in your home
library folder you drag your folder a
QuickTime Player scripts into that
folder and they show up in the menu it
really is that easy and then anytime you
need to run a script you can
access it from there we have some nice
scripts that really helps save some time
for example one that was that this was
one of Rhonda's big when she came to me
about this one says Sal we have to
automate this and it's chapter creation
instead of creating text files with
certain coatings and importing it this
is really interactive you literally just
put the movie where you want to go and
say make a chapter here and it will do
that we'll be demonstrating it so all of
these scripts deal with the various
things about chapters editing them
renaming them deleting them we have a
section of scripts that just deal with
the nuts and bolts of editing movie
files for example if you want to cut
from the current selection to a new
movie instead of going through a bunch
of steps on your own there's a quick
script to do it cut from the beginning
copy of selection to a new movie edit a
frame and graphic converter that's a
nice one merge the front movie into the
second movie automatically for you scale
the front movie to a specific percentage
little tools like that that you use
throughout the day that each one saves
you a couple seconds or saves you a half
a minute and by the end of the day
you're able to stay more focused on the
task that you're doing then the how am I
going to do this there's a section of
scripts for exporting and there's a
special one right here that will be
talking about save export settings
that's a new feature there's a section
of scripts that deal with favorites and
actually an HTML embed tag wizard if
you've ever been daunted by the task of
writing the HTML for a QuickTime embed
tag this actually walks you through it
it looks at the front movie and analyzes
and ask you a couple questions about
what you want to do with it and then
writes the embed tag for you will either
put it into a file or copy it to the
clipboard there's a section on info
scripts and these give you more
information for the front movie quickly
here's a nice one how to get the source
URL so the front movie if you're
interested in where streams coming from
some miscellaneous ones here's a very
useful one that will be demonstrating is
creating a thumbnail link movie to place
into a web page so that it's a miniature
of your movie and when they click it it
actually launches your movie in the
QuickTime Player that usually takes a
lot of steps to create that and then
embed it in your page and it's a script
that does it very easily for you there's
some other navigation scripts someplace
Crips some previewing scripts some
property scripts and these are setting
the specific playback properties like
auto quit when done auto close when done
autoplay playback properties in general
hrf of the front movie there's a couple
scripts dealing with smile FM IL if you
want to be able to write xml but never
got around to it these scripts will
write it for you and then there's a
serious of scripts dealing with text
tracks and tracks in general just about
every property that you want to deal
with the track you can deal with these
scripts and finally interesting script
for settings position of the movie in
the window because movies remember that
and if you wanted exactly 72 pixels by
90 pixels down from the left you can do
this if your anal retentive lightning so
there's a page that you're going to go
to and you can download that script
collection that I'm going to be
demonstrating now from that site and
start using these today to start saving
yourself some time any question about
that at all no see straight ahead isn't
it okay and this is the QuickTime
scripts collection as it looks like when
you download it the readme file again is
the same open Safari oh nice okay let's
just drag it up to be here the readme
files the same file that you just saw so
all that explanation you don't have to
write it down or copy it from the
website it's right there for your
detailed description of each one of the
scripts that will be dealing with
there's installation instructions that
tell you you know where you're going to
put the files of what you're going to do
with them what kind of requirements you
have for the scripts and then there's so
the collection of scripts themselves the
applet droplets there's some example
files to help you try out these scripts
there are some script templates that
you're going to use today and then i'll
be demonstrating that make actually
writing the scripts a very easy process
because they're pre done for you you
literally just open up these
templates put in the couple lines of
code that you want and save it in all of
the error handling and repeat routines
and everything else has already been
done for you I know I'm rolling you over
with all this stuff right there as the
collection of QuickTime Player scripts
which is the ones that i have installed
in the menu up here that's the
collection right here the QuickTime
Player scripts and there's some various
images involved in this as well and I
have this new thing called export
settings that will be looking at in just
a little while so let's begin by looking
at some of the athletes and droplets
that are available and how they work and
how you can use some of these yourself
yes you can get those from the
applescript website there on the page
about Bluetooth and the clicker
controlling the broadcaster yes and you
can just download them and copy them
from there I just got them and put them
in a little collection any other
questions before I roll on here I'm
sorry ok ok very good so if it's a
burning desire wherever I got that from
no okay then we'll as Rhonda pointed out
so nicely to me we'll save the questions
for the end and let's it's something
really important and then you can come
up to the mic and say it so that we can
get the translators to translate it so
there everybody else in the world out
there at large gets enjoy this as well
here's our applets collection and
there's the add to favorites annotations
drop at all annotations annotations and
credits droplet clear all annotations
for example and all of these droplets
the ones with the blue arrow are
designed to be double clicked and you
get a preference dialogue all of them
have some kind of a dialogue that tells
you what the script does and then
usually has a set of preferences
involved with it for example if I click
this it says you want to retain the
existing full name of the movie when you
set these settings and I say yes and
then you can enter a value for the album
artist I'll just click enter key
you can set any of these properties and
it will get stored in the script and be
part of the settings when they get set
so you can copy the script keep a couple
copies rename it call one you know
internal use call one website call one
you know CD use and then based upon what
you're going to do with your movie you
just drag it on there and it sets the
annotations here's one called
annotations and credits this actually
will make a rolling credits based upon
your annotations but I'm going to start
with the limited annotations droplet now
this particular droplet applies a small
subset of your annotations it doesn't go
through all four T's that are available
just the ones that you have put into the
property and to the comment window of
that particular script so I just got the
information for that droplet and you'll
see down in the comments field it says
product colon product is the name of the
annotation colon divides it from
whatever value you're going to have so i
have three annotations your video
product authors ordinary use of
performance with me myself and i so to
set the annotations to a movie i just
drag that movie on to the droplet it
opens up the movie applies to stuff and
closes it it's that fast so now let's go
back and open up that movie again and
then when i get the information for that
movie you can see up here that applied
the annotations for you automatically
now that's not so impressive with one
movie but it's very impressive with 300
smallville starting small we're building
here okay we're going to take that same
movie now that it has that applied the
annotations applied to it i'm going to
drag it on to the annotations and
credits droplet and let that go and it's
going to want to know a destination for
the new movie that it's going to make
from this and i'm going to just put this
as destination destination create
and choose that so it will open up the
movie and then extract all the
annotations create a credit that goes in
front of the movie and then save it off
now this is useful for if you if you're
reviewing content and you know you can't
keep track of every movie that you've
seen you need something that brings up
the annotations information first so
we'll go back to this destination folder
open up the movie and then run it and
you'll see that it brings up the
annotations information before it plays
the movie most impressive very very
impressive play golf klappa like that
very societal oh these guys are great
Tara Tina is nothing on them and then it
plays up for copyright and then the
movies up voila monochrome badal ah so
critical SP is nothing at all someone
that you email ok so there's an example
of a script that builds upon something
else that another script did but that
way you can take now take that movie and
give it to somebody else who's not
familiar with your organization in your
material and they instantly have all the
information in front of the movie and it
took me all of what how many seconds to
do it little things like this make a big
difference during the day and let's look
continue to look for some of our other
examples here display a folder as a
slideshow this is useful open quicktime
scripts here go to my examples files and
i'm going to choose slideshow images so
this has a couple images in it and what
I'll do is I'll just drag that onto the
script and now I have an instant
slideshow
just so I can preview and see what's
going on I don't have to actually import
them into iphoto to be able to you know
quickly browse through a folder of
images to see what I want that abilities
already built into quicktime now if I
want to save this at this point I can or
i can just delete it and don't save it
at all well that's a quick way to do an
entire folder is as a set you can also
there's another parent pair to that one
where you can save the entire folder
it's a slideshow as well and that's
called create slideshow from folder here
and that will go through the process of
actually building it and saving it so
you can automate 40 or 50 slideshows if
you want to do it that way there's the
limited annotations droplet that we just
saw where it does a small amount of
annotations and then there's the
playback scripts for example let me open
up another switch I hope you like switch
ads because i'm going to use those as my
material today is that okay all right
well that Romero chrome / switch all
right i'm going to double-click the
script because all of our scripts can be
set their preferences that can be stored
so the presentations normal size
continuation dialogue now what is the
continuation dialogue well I made the
script for automating the playback of
movies and I forgot to give it a way to
stop so what happens with guys
internally at Apple we're used to be
shows and they go oh ok I got to stop
and he stopped up one movie but the
script would keep going and load the
next one and it became Fantasia with the
water wizard and everything happening
all at once so what this does is it
brings up a quick dialogue for a couple
seconds self closes that says you want
to go to continue and that's an option
you could say I want to display the
movie at normal size and bring me a
continuation dialogue okay so let me
just grab a couple of these and I'll try
to do different ones each time we do
them okay I'll grab this one and this
one and I'll drag it on to the play
movie script now these you can keep in
your dock as well just have them there
all the time ipod ipod dear
XO iPods the Dodger games two and then
you gotta pass them down kind of the way
they sell hot dogs I got about fifteen
hundred in the trunk of my car I'm
usually shirtless just for a fact the
money that starts flowing in can listen
all these songs I say at least over 50
songs I'm not quite sure the amount i
think it's like two million songs my
name is Will Ferrell and I'm a porn
actor so it closed is it brings up the
continuation dialogue Christmas and then
does the next range are I saw Moloch so
I'm going to just say save that one for
a little bit later okay and then the
script senses that there's no more
movies open and it will close itself so
if you have you know series of movies
again that you want to be able to just
present how do you do it what do you do
line them all up in the movie player and
then click click click click or play all
movies and they all start gorda or
whatever oh I'm Will Ferrell no I'm
Walter oh so this is just a little
organized way to do that now as long as
we're getting into being able to play
movies movies have specific invisible
properties that make them very appealing
and some of these properties are such
things as setting a movie to
automatically close or automatically
quit or automatically play now we know
from the QuickTime Player interface that
you can set that flag in the properties
to do an automatic play but there's no
place in the interface to set an auto
close so i'll take will i'm going to
drag them on to auto clothes and now
wills ready to go and so while i'm
adding the drag will onto autoplay and
now play well christmas songs the dr
santa crazy are I saw Mommy Kissing
Santa underneath the Christmas tree the
Jingle Bell Rock white Christmas we're
getting enough
I've heard that over a billion times yes
Santa has an ipod and playlist 980
Christmas songs and then 20 doobie
brothers and one Sheryl Crow my name is
s Claus I live in the North Pole with
elves and reindeer so do you notice the
movie closed on its own nice way to
present present so that stays with the
movie file as a matter of fact if you
use that movie linked from another movie
or from a link in the website this kind
of thing happens he's got all this stuff
like prepared in little example things
and where Francis Valli rally ok help
center I'm going to find my copy of
Safari so this is a QuickTime movie it's
a one frame movie that has a href
applied to it using the href droplet and
the href is interesting it is a Open
bracket self present dot move close
bracket the self present move is the
name of the movie that this is targeted
to the movie is naturally set to self
present right the t means target then
the next bracket is quicktime player and
bracket and if you use this as your URL
what's that saying is open up this
particular movie that's in the same
folder is this file and play it in the
quicktime player so a simple click on
this opens up the movie
and then closes it nice way to present a
movie from a web page isn't it or from
the help page the user doesn't have to
know anything about controls or about
how to manipulate the play or anything
else all they have to do is just click
click ok click reload click all the
quicktime player that's because i had
pants are installed on the other stupid
partition earth been bugging me all week
ok hold on so click so this movie set to
auto quit as well as auto close right so
I'll relaunch the player here to get it
back so there's an example of how you
can take that playback property and
incorporate it and change the way that
you're displaying the content on a
website ok going to continue on there is
the auto quit property autoplay and then
there are some droplets for batch
setting them so if you want to set the
playback properties back to where they
were you just drag it on top of this and
it gets rid of all those playback
properties and returns the movie back to
its pristine state if you want to do
them all together then you can double
click this particular droplets and
determine you know what time you want to
have it for display and then drag it
onto that to set that's a couple of the
those playback properties another
example where Apple scrip can really
help you save some time is in media skin
how many people are using media skins
how do you go about doing media skins
it's a multi-step process isn't it it's
a quite quite involved process you have
to have all your materials together it's
like watching the Saturday morning
cooking shows they make it look so easy
because somebody else has already cut up
the carrots and they have a little thing
here and they just make their happy
little mess and then they don't even
have to cook it they just look at
something that's already cooked and they
go la
what a flood of uncha cooks I don't
think any of them can actually cook so
here's an example a hassle script now
how Apple script can automate some of
the process and take some of the sting
out of making media skin so you can
really take advantage of this incredible
technology that's unique to quicktime
here I have some of the elements that
are incorporated in the process of
making a media skin there's the media
skin itself there's the mask that
indicates the area it's going to be cut
away and there's the drag mass which is
going to indicate which part of the mat
of the quicktime skin is going to
actually show my source movie is this
little movie here of a plane so I want
the plane to fly through this queue now
instead of going through the multi-step
process of having to do that by hand I'm
just going to take the plane and drop it
on to this script and it says where do
you want me to put this particular movie
when I get done with it i'm going to say
choose right there and i left these
little dialogues and you can turn them
off but i left them in so you can see
the steps that it's doing it's going to
add the media skin to the background
move it to the back activate transparent
areas ok that's a bug on my computer and
nobody else's that area that's white
should actually be white it's going to
write the xml data to disk open the new
movie and then apply the playback
settings save the finish movie close it
delete temporary items movie process so
you can turn off those if you want to
batch process this kind of thing you
don't have to have those dialogues
running and here is the resulting movie
on my computer I have a bug in my
computer that makes it so that you can't
see through so I'm going to go in here
by hand and go properties of this movie
and I'll show you what it looks like
and we're going to choose media skin
background graphics mode transparent and
set the color for white I believe it is
that's black this way so that's only on
my computer it's not on yours this will
actually work on your computer leave it
closed it and now launch it so that's a
multi-step process thank you the
multistage process involving a lot of
work that's now automated down to just a
single drag-and-drop and now we've added
in some playback properties to make it
even cooler and that's again part of
this whole collection of athletes and
droplets that are available for you from
the website there's other ones such fate
set controller type set window position
save as uneditable save in various
formats like copy make a copy hinted
exported to a DB stream if you want to
so all the export kind of ideas are
available to you as well I'll show you
one more which is the set href property
and I'm going to set the preference for
the target URL to be HTTP colon slash
slash dub dub dub apple.com / Apple
script and that's going to be the
preference for this so that when I drag
on any movie on to that script and let's
do this one
it's not going to love expose right okay
so it just set the href of this movie
play come on Oklahoma da la critics
lesbian something at all i wanted to
email my song anybody show game if I'm
on the ice Tony I want to home there it
is I went right to the website so that's
how you set the href for moving very
easily with Apple script again so you
can begin to get an idea about a
workflow that would involve maybe having
a folder of some of your favorite
automation scripts in a location on your
computer either than the dock or or
someplace else and as you're working
with koi pond content during the day for
those small tasks that you need to do I
need a copy of this in this format I
need to set this for our home URL I need
to accept the annotations on this one
it's just a matter of you dragging to
these little tools like those neat
little kitchen tool things okay let's
take a look at some of the scripts that
are part of the QuickTime scripts
collection i'm going to open up my
momoko mul mul go again haha and i'm
going to add chapters into this movie
now how do you do chapters how do you
add chapters into a movie you shoot
yourself oh okay it's an interesting way
to go about doing it probably a more
pacifist way would be to use Apple
script and we're going to try it that
way thank you for being patient so the
quicktime player i'll choose chapters
and the first thing I'll do is create
chapter track and what that script will
do it says which chapter which tracked
you want to tie the chapters truth to
the audio or the video track i'll choose
the video track so it goes through the
process of creating a chapter track and
inserting a chapter at the very
beginning start now i'd like to add some
let's see a full screen to go back to
their okay so it's just about to right
there so she's standing up okay now at
that point i'm going to go back to the
quicktime player and i'm going to choose
chapters add chapter at the current time
i'm going to give it a name of full shot
right there click ok and you can
see that it added a chapter there and it
has still wanted to start like that and
then I'm going to continue down over
here to where it brings in the logo logo
so I'll go back and choose what chapters
and chapters current time and sale of
wok wok wok logo she's ok so now I have
chapters inserted for a full shot start
logo and of course they change as the as
the movies playing this one doesn't want
to scroll very well today if I want to
delete one of those or rename a chapter
I can go back and do that i'll choose
chapter and I could say delete chapter
or rename a chapter so instead of full
shot I'll call that halfway and you can
see from our chapter list here or
chapter pop up it's halfway start and
logo easy chapters are a piece of cake
now and what can you do with chapters
you can add chapters into your quicktime
content and then when you put that into
the new idvd it will automatically sense
that and break those out in two separate
DVD portions for you so you don't
necessarily have to be in iMovie in
order to add chapter tracks into your
your your movie content it's really easy
to do right from applescript now all of
this has been happening because of the
power of applescript working behind the
scenes talking to the quicktime player
all of these scripts have involved the
use of the quicktime player application
it's actually the pro version you know
I've got the pro version I actually
bought the pro version myself I must say
I want to support my company I bought I
bought the pro version myself you know
and then I took five keys off the server
and use them for other things you know
but basically I did paper and all of
this has been happening with the
quicktime player application and it
involves the process of writing script
when you write scripts and use
applescript as you guys well know
use the script editor this is the first
version of the new script editor beta to
the second version has lot nicer icons
and a little bit different interface
here but it's basically the idea that is
this is the area right here in which you
write your script now I'm going to open
up the dictionary or the internal
commands available to us from
applescript for the QuickTime Player to
do that I choke went to the file menu
and I chose open dictionary I get this
wonderful dialogue that shows me every
scriptable app on my computer hopefully
your computer does not look anything
like mine and here is the dictionary for
the QuickTime Player now since a lot of
you who have scripted before you're not
afraid of seeing this kind of a thing
this makes a lot of sense to you there
are the standard suite of events these
are commands that are common to most
scriptable application they're usually a
set of verbs or commands to indicate
standard action such as clothes count
delete does something exists make make a
new movie open print quit so these are
the commands the verbs that you use and
this section of the dictionary is the
QuickTime Player sweet and this contains
commands and objects that are particular
to the quicktime player application
under the category of classes you see
this collapsible thing right here those
are the objects that can be scripted
there's commands or verbs that are the
action and then there's the nouns which
are the objects that can receive those
action commands there's annotations and
an annotation has some properties that
about it it has a property called full
text it has an ID it has a name the
application which is the quicktime
player application itself actually has a
very interesting set of properties here
and it also shows you that a quicktime
player has these elements that belong to
it it has a display which is your
monitor a favorite a movie a recent item
and a window
are all things that the quicktime player
application deals with on a scriptable
basis and these are some of the
properties of just the application
itself and some of these are pretty
interesting like open new movie open
movie and new player so you can remotely
have applescript control the way that
the movie player on the customers
machines going to respond before you
even play the first movie so you can set
this property you can get this property
and change it as you need to you can
find out what is your current quicktime
connection speed you can find out what
quicktime language is quicktime pro
installed what is the version of
quicktime do you want to show the
equalizer do you want to show the
favorites window you want to show the
movie in the window you want to show the
Welcome movie automatically and what
version of the QuickTime Player are you
dealing with there are them descriptive
objects themselves that make up the
quicktime player and one of the first
ones we're going to go to at a tire
level is the movie object because we all
deal with this pretty much and a movie
is composed of annotations it has
chapters it has a file or an Internet
location an Internet location for a
stream write a file for a movie that
you're running on a CD it has track it
might have video tracks audio tracks
graphic tracks any kind of QuickTime
track which show up here and it has a
window that the movie execute in and
these are the properties of a movie and
you can see that the Gary's done an
incredible job of supplying the kind of
things that we need it's really really
amazing there's your auto quit when done
and it says it's a boolean value which
is true or false so I could say set auto
quit when done of the front movie to
false and it will not quit when done if
I say set auto quit when done of the
front movie did true then it will quit
the application it will quit the
quicktime player when it's done the same
applies for clothes when done you can
set the controller type to a specific
kind of control type to none or to VR
player or whatever you need you can get
the current time of the movie you can
get the dimensions you can get the
duration fast start
get the a href so this is what those
droplets use to go in and set the
various parameters of a movie and you
can see that they're quite extensive in
their variety now a movie is composed of
tracks while tracks also have a
collection of properties involved with
them from whether it's an audio sample
rate or whether it's a language or what
kind is it is that a video grayscale
what are the natural dimensions of that
track all of these properties can be
gotten or set from applescript now a
track can also have a chapter and
chapter has very it has a name a time
that it occurs and an index also there
are frames in a movie frames have a
duration and index a time of value
there's images and internet location the
palette the RGB color recent items
streams text frames track texture and we
already cover tracks an event and then
some of the events that are available
these are some of the verbs that apply
to these kind of objects that are
pertinent to just quick time add can
export clear copy cut enterfullscreen
exit full screen export flying flip
horizontal flip vertical get URL invert
open image sequence open location paste
play present we do we place resize we
revisited rid of rotate level everything
so you can see that there's a really big
collection of tools available for you
here to take advantage of just in the
quicktime pro player that let you really
shorten that what you do and the scripts
that we've presented to you are ways to
shortcut that process now let me take it
to the another example of this and what
I'm going to do now is show an example
of three of the new features that are
part of the QuickTime dictionary so
we'll go back here for a second pull
that dictionary back up again
recent item template our dictionary okay
and one of the new events is
enterfullscreen and exit full screen we
have the ability to auto present a movie
so you saw previously when I did click
the link in the web page that the movie
went full screen and then present itself
and then closed off but you can actually
see the movie loading in you can
actually see the file open up and then
play for smoother presentation what
we've implemented in the new version of
quicktime with these two commands it's
the ability to first set the monitor to
a color just a plain color that you want
whether it's white black red chartreuse
appeal whatever you like and then we
load the movie in behind it and then
present the movie when the movie is done
we close the movie bring up the next one
play that then close that one then bring
the screen back to normal so this
enterfullscreen command comes in very
useful when you need to present to
somebody who's got a wallet that has
money in it so you always think about
how Apple scripts used in money you know
in terms of money because I used to
write scripts for a living and all of
this technology has now been built that
commands been built into the new version
of the present movies script so some of
the new abilities are presentations you
want it full screens you want to double
normal do you want a continuation
dialogue you want it to loop you want to
set the volume and what kind of
background color do you want to apply to
it so I'll set some of these preferences
I'll let it go fullscreen I'll leave the
default volume should it play no
continuation dialogue no looping and I
want to set this background of it to
white so you can see that that's been
applied and saved into the script now
when I drag a let's see since we're
program is here I'm going to drag that
these two on to the script
I don't see it go full white first you
didn't see the movie load happens very
fast and very soon and set up fun on
windows I had my whole life on that
machine you know my my illustrations my
writing my banking you know it's like
being my fiance knows if it works on
some level so now you know somebody that
knows somebody who knows good effort to
do it within what you do it you realize
you should have done it a long time ago
okay watch watch when it's closed Uzi
lance writer and illustrator closest
screen we had done some new movie come
again smooth at up with it that we
decided to try it out great we were
worried by the the imac then we looked
at the operating system and said wow
this was possibly the best operating
system I've ever seen because I was
expecting to see three thousand guys
looking at gme everything the internet
we're imagine my surprise and stunned by
those it's not just for artists it's not
just for pointy-headed intellectuals
from California yes it's crossed its
berdych pointy-headed just for
developers this thing is an all-around
computer I can use this for everything
now watch it close I'm a programmer by
trade and then back to normal night
thank the quicktime team for putting
that in there for it so another new
feature that they inserted into the new
version a QuickTime that's very useful
especially for those that actually know
what they're doing is this thing called
a matrix anybody here familiar with
matrices grumble grumble couple people
yeah yeah cool a couple of people
algebra I hated it I hated I hated well
it's like where you have three numbers
and then you have three numbers
underneath that and then three numbers
underneath that and you change these
numbers and somehow it does something
they have it in photoshop and I've
opened up images and just typed in
numbers and watch them go whoa no more
then you can't get them back and you
know aunt louise has a carrot growing
out of her nose and it gets weird so
they've opened up the ability for us to
set and get the current matrix for a
movie so what I'm going to do is open up
a movie and
[Music]
okay and what I'm going to do is go in
here and choose get movie properties
video track sighs adjust so well first
I'm going to do is just grab this here
you click it once and then I'm going to
just kind of skew it a little bit like
this so I've actually changed the movie
if the movie still plays like this but
now it's been altered and this has been
offered through a mathematical
calculation involving a matrix so i'm
going to write a script tell application
quicktime player to get the current
matrix can you see that of the front
movie don't you love this heavy
programming stuff and if i run it you
can see that down here at the bottom we
have an apple script list of three
numbers corresponding to the top numbers
three numbers corresponding to the
middle numbers and three numbers
corresponding to the bottom numbers
that's the matrix of this movie and if i
go into the movie and again do some more
things to it like Oh grab it rotational
rotate it like that and then run the
script again you can see that the value
here changed so you can literally go in
and use Apple script now to morph your
movies into any kind of way that you
want to and this is available to you I
forgot to turn it off okay and there's a
script in the QuickTime Player
collection called X miscellaneous set
matrix of the front movie and we've
included a couple just by default
horizontal squeeze where it's lightly
squeezes the front movie
go back to that and miscellaneous matrix
of the front movie make it back to
normal let's see normal and it don't
worry about hurting your movie because
the movie actually knows what it
originally looked like and you can
really muck it up in it and get it back
to normal you can even make it look like
a flying card you know weird doesn't
three superman just work legitimately
I'm interested to see what kind of
mathematics some of the some of the guys
out there who really know what they're
doing with this kind of thing can do
with movies maybe turn them into you
know Krispy Kreme donuts or something
like that with weird centering things
like that but that's another second
feature involved in a new quicktime
player the third feature the third new
feature that i want to talk about is a
very important one that's been a a
wishlist item for everybody for quite
some time now you'll notice that under
export we've always wanted to use the
incredible engine that's built into the
operating system of quicktime to do
compression you might not know this but
you know all the compression tools you
need for really doing good quality
compression are built into the QuickTime
architecture and can be accessed from
the quicktime player and naturally since
they're scriptable you can use those to
batch process some export of items
yourself and until now until the most
recent version of quicktime you would
have to say using a settings preset
which was one of these things so if i
open up Dave again and i choose you also
discussed in the industry they've got so
disgusted with me i had them set to auto
play and present did night so if i chose
export these settings here I could use
default settings most recent settings or
something that was pre named we didn't
have the ability in Apple script to go
into the options and really get at all
the various settings and gets into
details and we couldn't set those on the
fly like we wanted to to be able to do
some very sophisticated batch process
testing so what they've implemented in
the new quicktime player is the ability
to actually save in export setting now
these settings get saved to a specific
kind of file the only quicktime pays
attention to you can't open it up into
BD at it and play with it but what you
can do then is save off your favorite
set of settings and then use those
settings when you want to batch export
so you could have 20 different settings
for just audio you might have a set that
really worked well for classical stuff
you might have a set that really worked
great for jazz or you might have a set
for video that you like a certain way
and now all of those are available to
you using the save export command and
you can the way you would do that is you
would say save export settings for the
front movie for perhaps mpeg-4 to a file
location and you always want to do this
you always want to first of all set up
your settings so I'm going to go options
mpeg-4 I want video to be here ding ding
ding dad like that who this could be
ugly like that over here and about their
okay and then I go okay save and then
start the export and then stop it what
that is done is that set into the
QuickTime Player those as being your
most recent settings now when I use the
command and Apple script to save export
settings I'm actually saving those
settings so yes it's going to take them
maybe you know a couple hours to set up
to all Bachelor your favorite settings
but once you do you can do cool things
with it and so I'd like to bring up now
Ryan Lynch from the QuickTime team was
going to demonstrate this tool that he'd
created himself used internally and with
some clients thank you
can we have demo to flee oh yes so part
of my job is dealing with production of
streaming media and so it's terribly
tedious and repetitive if you don't have
any tool to take care of it so what I've
done is use a lot of the scripts that we
have demo to that thank you some of the
things that sound came up with before
and tweak them a lot and and help to
really automate some of processes that
we have to do so taking off on the
saving Nick this export settings I have
a fun little tooled I wrote here called
quicktime quicktime compression helper
and so you know I've got some nifty aiff
files and I want to actually do a batch
and code of these things so if I were to
open it up in quicktime player will go
through this whole thing and set up the
I want to export to a QuickTime movie
perhaps with AAC is awesome so we'll do
that and good enough okay so if we were
to export that to desktop go so now if I
were to run this I can just say save my
quicktime settings mmm because i just
did the QuickTime movies let's save the
quicktime movie settings you can save
any of the settings for 3gp which is new
and 6.3 quicktime or even the hinted
movie any of them so let's say that i'm
going to call it I'd like Bob so Bob
test now it's saved it off and if i were
to grab all of these files drag them on
there gives me a list of all the
settings that i have that i've already
saved off in my settings directory so i
can say Bob test in a 96 k go and now
it's going to go through and export
those two movies at both those bit rates
save them back out to disk really cool
so you can basically set up your own
poor man's version of cleaner and it
works very well actually like the think
of it it's the smart man's version I
really know
because the nice thing is this is yours
you customize it the way that you want
you're not dealing with somebody else's
interface you're not dealing with
somebody else's rules of the game this
is something that you do that's yours
that really works for your needs and the
needs of your client and it's a tool
that cost Rhonda what is quicktime pro
sell for 2999 and you get access to this
incredible technology and compression
ability can you get it free in a book
that's another good one there's a quick
time for the last web I thought I was
going to get some you to say that quick
time for the whole web it also includes
that as well okay so we got one that
came out like this is the last one okay
that's not bad what do you what you be
doing this on what is it acos oh it's
not a g5 how come I want one okay that's
enough of that anyway so we'll stop that
and let's take a look we gotta we have
four new files that's created its
exported and I've named them what's the
names of settings that I used so that
you know what you've just exported so
that's kind of if bein works pretty well
oh god tell this to shut up and now I've
got these files but when you have just
movie file or just audio files they
don't look very pretty so we want to
when we present these things for the web
I usually like to add a graphic on to
them and let so there's something for
the user to actually see and get more of
an experience so I've got some no not
that one the other one I've got some
files here they're all audio files are
not very special and I like that they're
just they're all the same actually so
we're going to take these guys and I'm
going to drop them on my little image
and annotation script and none of them
had annotation so I like to do this a
whole bunch of things together and just
string a whole bunch of operations into
one applescript like a workflow yeah a
workflow so it works very well so we
have i'm going to set the annotations it
actually saves this version saves
annotations that I used last time so
that i can use them again which is kind
of nifty it's a wonderful feature you
properties
save everything into them and so there
we go that sounds good I'm going to
choose my graphic file hey that looks
good go for it so I was copying and
pasting it in there and boom done so now
on Phi 0 4 in court open this up that's
Otto I guess that wants a bottle place
it so you could actually have a series
of images and have a slideshow going
along as that's playing too just what
images you get of the group from the web
or whatever as well great use yeah
excellent example of a simple workflow
put together with Apple script in the
tools or the quicktime player thank you
I appreciate it so the next thing can we
go back to laptop one laptop one so
that's some of what's in the QuickTime
script if you actually delve through
there there's a lot more involved and
there's a lot more that you can take
advantage of due to time constraints
we're going to move on to some heavier
hitting things this year for Apple and
the last year for Apple has been a
tremendous year of innovation and as
Steve said a couple years ago well when
he was asked a question about the
economic slump he said the apple of
plans to innovate its way out of the
slump and we've been doing that as
witnessed by some of the materials and
things that you've seen it this show one
of the key things that we were able to
do that we introduced a while ago with
Apple scripts to do what Apple scripts
to do is it's a peer development
language to objective c java and c uses
the same tools development tools that
all those other languages use and now at
this series of this conference we
introduce the culmination of the
original work that we did with project
builder and we introduced Xcode and I've
just opened up xcode here and Apple
scripts to do is actually a component of
Xcode it's part of Xcode and what it
lets you do is it lets you develop real
applications for mac OS 10
written entirely in applescript
partially an applescript or a
combination of Apple script Java Sea
carbon cocoa whatever you want you put
it together and it's yours and it looks
like a Mac os10 app because it is a Mac
os10 app and one of the neat things
about this and one of the really
innovative things about this is the
cross talk now between languages
applescript can now communicate directly
with any system API or any framework
including the QuickTime framework I'm
going to launch this little app that's
on my desktop here called the movie
player so it what this will do is I'll
just do it in lunch like it safe would
you get it wait it faded in i'll run
again i found a new i found a new
property it's just see the way to movie
faded in its going to fade out now
interesting of thing about this movie i
get too faded then when we're done I
like my toys I'm going to stop it is
this movie player application has some
commands so I can rewind I can play I
can stop and I can set preferences so it
has a series of preferences that I can
set for autoplay auto quit when done do
I want to hide other application windows
when I launch this application and do I
want to fade the movie in and out and
this is the native mac OS 10 application
I've created my own movie player
application and like any other mac OS 10
application that's created it has a
bundle it is actually a package of
things and if I open up the contents
folder resources folder is a folder in
there called movie and I can literally
just take this movie out and drag in
another one I won't take that when I
want something more that's mean the
local yeah we go
and I'm going to close that and now run
the app again final Columbus Allah just
critical SP as I make it all come on at
any email or hide song so I can now
control the way that Matt movie is
played to my client I don't have to
worry about quicktime player or anything
else I've made myself my own little
movie player app that controls the way
the movies presented and displayed now
this app was created entirely in Apple
scripts to do you can download this
entire project today from the
applescript website i'll take us right
there and you can go applescript calm
because like a quicktime guys we got our
own address me and click the Apple
scripts to do button and there's a
project down here that's called movie
player project and you can download it
and actually use this and I'm going to
open that project up right now into
Xcode and you do that by just clicking
the blue kind of file and this is X code
is you've seen it demonstrated
throughout the conference so far and we
live in this project we live in this
environment to this is our environment
just as much as it is objective c Coco
carbon any other language this belongs
to Apple script too we are a peer of jet
we are pure development language now on
mac OS 10 and as you can see the movie
player project contains a scripts folder
which will contain the scripts for our
project it contains the resources folder
that in this particular case contains a
movie folder with my movie in it as well
icons and you'll notice that there's a
frameworks folder and one of the things
that are in the frameworks folder let me
open this up a little bit here is I've
loaded in the QuickTime framework so
Apple script can tie into the QuickTime
framework directly you can write your
own commands to do this so what I'm
going to do is for example I'll open up
the Apple script script itself just
double-click it
and this is the Apple script script
that's in there I'm going to set this
for editing out of a single window and
it has a lot of documentation built
right into the header so it tells you
how to use this and it tells you about
some of the QuickTime calls that are
available to you and documents each one
of them I'm going to just jump to where
the script is so this is actually the
script that that makes up this
particular application it has some
handlers for what it does when it
launches it has some properties that it
stores and rights to a preference file
like any other Mac os10 application and
it has routines for loading the movie
what it will do when the movies finished
launching what the movie what the
application will do once it's finished
launching and then it has an idol
handler right here that the application
will watch and determine when the movies
finished playing well that's not a
command that's readily available to
Apple script there's no is movie done
playing command built in to trot into
Xcode at this point so how did we
accomplish that well we did that by
tying into one of the QuickTime api's we
created a little routine for ourselves
here and it ties into the QuickTime API
is the little cocoa thing here it's a
boolean value meaning true or false this
is the name of the routine I've put
together is movie finished and here you
can see it's actually calling into the
QuickTime api and api call that they
have is called is movie done it returns
a value of zero or one true or false
true depending upon whether that movie's
done and you pass it in the QuickTime ah
the QuickTime movie that you're going to
be examining and all of this can be
found you can go find and not here I
want to go up here find find in project
no none yeah in frameworks I want to
find word done and sign it
is movie done up too fast for me here
it's in the movies dot H file right here
so this just went into the QuickTime dot
H file and you can see that here this
was put in in version 10 oh and later
carbon 10 quicktime live 2.5 and 3 and
here's the it moved in on me natural
bounds wherever it went to let slid
around but you can see it takes you
right into the quicktime headers and you
can actually see all the calls that you
can make and the way that it's called in
in the applescript application is this
met this particular thing called call
method then you give it the name of the
method with any parameters that you're
passing through so what this point
applescript leaves this world calls into
the quicktime frameworks has it though
do something or return some information
and then get that information back and
then proceeds on with it now this sample
project that's up on the website
contains about contains a library here
which just goes right to it i'll show it
to you dot H file oh that's the wrong
one IM file and then switch over to the
thing here are some of the calls that
are available in this little sample that
we have in this project getting the time
value for a movie setting the time value
getting the duration value for a movie
getting the time scale the bounds of the
movie the natural bounce of the movie
rewinding the movie going to the end is
the movie done what's the bounds of the
main screen and setting the volume for
the movie this augments the abilities of
Apple scripts to do as it is right now
and it's a great example of how to
expand your work beyond the normal scope
that you've been able to do with Apple
script instead of waiting for a
scripting addition to be written by a
third party that you have to make sure
its installed on every machine you can
now just call the calls directly
yourself through apple scripts to do and
create a visual interface that
determines what the user sees as part of
the project of every project this
particular application has a
a nib file in interface builder and this
is the interface builder let me hide all
the other stuff so you can see this is
the Preferences window here's the
application menu this is the floating
window and it has certain properties
involved with it as far as how it's
designed to expand and the movie view
that's on site and inside of that window
that I have stretched to fill it it's
also set to expand so that when the
movies placed in there applescript asks
for the size of the movie from quick
time and then tells the window to size
yourself automatically to these
dimensions and naturally the movie goes
to that dimensions and then it shows it
all of that put together with inside of
Apple scripts to do brave new world you
have a lot more abilities than you ever
had before and it's all available to you
Mac os10 Jaguar and panther with Xcode
moving forward so that's just a quick
overview of some of the things that you
can do with Apple script and Apple
scripts to do and QuickTime and some of
the resources that are available today
small things and big things so with that
we have a few more minutes I'll be glad
to take some questions do I have an
assistant on the questions here okay
thank you so I guess I'm the assistant
on the question
[Applause]
so quickly will go through the upcoming
road map and as we're doing that please
line up at the microphones if you have
any questions for sale or or Ryan if you
have any here's the roadmap of upcoming
things there is a quicktime alternative
programming environments which i
obviously we just had a big lesson on
that and if there's any questions on who
to contact regarding anything to do with
quicktime it's a gear more GMO mark
Ortiz he's at quicktime man at apple.com
reference library shall pretty much told
you about all this stuff and don't miss
there's a lab downstairs open every day
where you can talk to engineers about
anything you need to do and there's also
content creation lab about creating
content
you